== Introduction ==

The Transportation Analysis and Simulation System (TRANSIMS), is an integrated set of tools developed to conduct regional transportation system analyses. With the goal of establishing TRANSIMS as an ongoing public resource available to the transportation community, TRANSIMS is made available under the NASA Open Source Agreement Version 1.3. 

== Download ==

Source code and binaries may be downloaded from the *[http://sourceforge.net/projects/transims/ TRANSIMS SourceForge]* site.

== Learn ==
  * *[http://code.google.com/p/tsims-test3/wiki/TransimsRoadMap TRANSIMS Road Map]* - A guide to the TRANSIMS process flow, with links to specific components. Recommended for new users.

  * *[http://code.google.com/p/tsims-test3/wiki/DocumentationIndex Documentation Index]* _(Version 4.0.6)_ - All documentation for the current version of TRANSIMS.

  * *[http://code.google.com/p/tsims-test3/wiki/HowToIndex How-To Guides]* - Tutorials for performing specific tasks in TRANSIMS.

  * *[http://code.google.com/p/tsims-test3/wiki/CaseStudies Case Studies]* - Information on real-life applications of TRANSIMS.

== Support ==

  * *[http://groups.google.com/group/transims_ug TRANSIMS User Group]* - For questions about setting up and using TRANSIMS.

  * *[http://groups.google.com/group/transims_dev TRANSIMS Developer Group]* - For questions about contributing to or modifying TRANSIMS

== Project News ==
<wiki:gadget url="http://google-code-feed-gadget.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/gadget.xml" up_feeds="http://transims-opensource.dreamhosters.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=section&layout=blog&id=2&Itemid=84&format=feed&type=atom" width="500px" height="340px" border="0"/>