#summary Setting Up the Model
[http://code.google.com/p/transims/wiki/RoadMap Back to Road Map]

=Network Preparation=

Network preparation typically involves taking a network from an existing model, and converting it to a TRANSIMS network.  The two major sub-steps are highway network preparation and transit network preparation.  

==Highway Network Preparation:  Typical Process==

1. Starting data typically includes a list of nodes (with UTM coordinates) and a list of links (with origin / destination node, length, number of lanes in each direction, speed, capacity and other information).  Optional information includes a TRANSIMS shape file and turning restrictions.  If the initial data consists of ESRI shape files, [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/quickreference/GISNet%20QR.pdf GISNet] may be used to create TRANSIMS files. 

2. Before performing the network conversion, it is best to correct any errors in the input network.  Steps to consider include
  * Remove links and nodes that are not needed for the model.  These may include internal centroid connectors.  
  * Adding any new links or nodes that might be needed
  * Correcting the number of lanes and speeds on links
  * Correction of links with extremely short lengths. 
  * If a signalized divided arterial is represented as two one-way links, converting those links into two-way links and removing the extra nodes. This avoids the issue with two automatically-generated traffic signals extremely close together.  
  * Fixing erroneous shape information

3. [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/usermanuals/TransimsNet%20v4.0.pdf TransimsNet (Full)]  [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/quickreference/TransimsNet%20QR.pdf(Quick Reference - QR)] is then used to perform the initial network conversion.  Required inputs include Node and Link files.  Optional inputs include Zone, Turn Prohibition and Shape files. [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/usermanuals/Network%20Data%20Tables.pdf Network Data Tables] contains a list of all of the network tables, along with their fields. 

4. At this stage a number of other corrections are typically performed:
  *  Fixing any issues in the lane_connectivity file (particularly with multiple turn lanes)
  *  Modifying the sign and signal warrants as appropriate.
  *  Modifying activity locations    

5. [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/usermanuals/IntControl%20v2.2.pdf IntControl (Full)][http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/quickreference/IntControl%20QR.pdf(QR)]  
is then used to generate the files for the signalized intersections.  Inputs include Node, Link, Lane_Connectivity, Pocket_Lane, Actvity_Location, Sign_Warrant, and Signal_Warrant files. [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/usermanuals/Network%20Data%20Tables.pdf Network Data Tables] contains a list of all of the network tables, along with their fields. 

6.  Finally, [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/usermanuals/ArcNet%20v4.0.pdf ArcNet (Full)] [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/quickreference/ArcNet%20QR.pdf (QR)] to generate shape files from the newly created TRANSIMS network.  These shape files are then loaded into a GIS, and the newly created network is examined for errors. 

Other references that may be useful for highway network preparation include
[http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/quickreference/Progression%20QR.pdf Progression QR], [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/howto/Installation%20and%20Testing%20How-To.doc Installation and Testing How-To], [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/usermanuals/Installation%20and%20Testing.pdf Installation and Testing User Manual], [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/usermanuals/Network%20Data%20Tables.pdf Network Data Tables], [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/howto/Highway%20Network%20How-To.doc Highway Network How-To (New)], [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/howto/Network%20Edit%20How-To.doc Network Edit How-To]

==Transit Network Preparation:  Typical Process==

UNDER CONSTRUCTION

==Network Editing==

Network editing is part of the two previously-described processes. 

=Trip Table Conversion= 

A trip-table based TRANSIMS implementation uses trip table, trip time and activity location files.  The trip table files list the trips by origin zone and destination zone.  The trip time files define how those trips are distributed by time-of-day.  The activity location file associates each zone with one or more activity locations. Steps for preparing TRANSIMS trips from trip tables include the following.  

1. Modify the input trip tables that came from the four-step model. Two modifications that are typically performed include converting the numbers of trips to integers, and (possibly) the removal of intrazonal trips. 

2. Run a script to create TRANSIMS-format trip tables and trip times suitable for input into the TRANSIMS ConvertTrips program

3. Make any needed modifications to the activity locations. This typically includes the following:
  * If a shape file of zones is available, use [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/quickreference/LocationData%20QR.pdf LocationData] to assign the activity locations to the proper zones
  * Identify those zones that are still not covered by any activity location, and reassign some activity locations to those zones.
  * For external zones and their associated activity locations on one-way (freeway) links, make sure that the inbound link is associated with an origin activity location, and the outbound link with a destination activity location.  

4. Run the TRANSIMS ([http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/quickreference/ConvertTrips%20QR.pdf ConvertTrips (QR)] [http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/usermanuals/ConvertTrips%20v4.0.pdf (Full)] program to convert the trip tables and trip time data into Trip, Household, Population and Vehicle files. These files contain the individual trips that are used as input to the TRANSIMS Router. 

Other references that may be useful for trip table conversion include

[http://transims.googlecode.com/svn/documentation/howto/Trip%20Table%20How-To.doc Trip Table How-To]

=Activity Generation=

UNDER CONSTRUCTION

[http://code.google.com/p/transims/wiki/RoadMap Back to Road Map]